So those are the last JavaScript keywords
I just wanted to mention to you that
exist.
But at this point,
we have taken our first steps into
the infinite universe
of learning JavaScript.
So let's take a moment to recap what
we've seen and feel really good about
ourselves because we have some badass new
magic powers to work with JavaScript.
We are the baddest witches in town now
that we have learned so many different
tricks and we've got so many different
tools in our JavaScript toolbox.
So let's take a moment and
appreciate everything that we've just
crammed into our brains in this course.
So we started back.
It's been 80 full years since we were
talking about basic values in JavaScript,
strings, and numbers, and
Booleans, and undefined, and
null, and more complex values too,
arrays and objects.
And over the course, we've learned
more and more intricate kind of fancy
ways of interacting with these complex
values like arrays and objects.
So, we've really wrapped our heads
around what are the things in
the JavaScript universe.
We've also wrapped our heads around how
to remember things with variables and
how scope comes into play to help us
understand where variables are in play.
For example in functions, so
we can use functions to do things and
within functions, we can have our own
kind of limo with tinted windows, our own
scope of, in the function, variables and
values that the function can work with.
And this is how we can kind of
understand what JavaScript is seeing
in different chunks of our code
here based on how variables and
scope work and functions are one of
the places where we get a new scope.
We also talked about doing things,
we figured out how to listen for
events from the browser so that we know
when somebody has clicked on a button or
hovered over an element.
And we can handle it, we can use our
event listeners and click Handler or
mouse over handler functions
to do something to the page or
to load more data or
to do whatever we want.
We also talked about how to decide
what to do with conditionals,
with if else statements or with our
fancy conditional ternary operators.
We also figured out how to do
things more than once with loops.
We got for loops, we got while loops.
We have maps and filter over arrays.
So we learned a whole bunch of different
ways to do things, decide what to do,
do things multiple times and
do whatever we want with our JavaScript.
And we looked at some actually
pretty advanced JavaScript concepts.
We talked about how asynchronous
code works in JavaScript.
We had our, Await friend that
helps us work with asynchronous
code as if it was synchronous code.
We also have understand that
we have async functions
as distinguished from regular functions.
So we learned that pretty tricky,
if you ask me, part of JavaScript,
how JavaScript thinks about time and
when things happen in JavaScript.
We started looking at it.
We also learnt some fancy syntax, right?
We learned, for example those conditional
ternary operators with a question mark.
We learned about destructuring,
we learned about the spread...
That we can use to kind of spread
out elements from an array.
We learned all kinds of fancy syntax
error, arrow functions, fat arrows.
And all of that stuff is really kind of
modern, relatively new in JavaScript.
It is getting more and more common, so
we're gonna run into that as we read
JavaScript and
write JavaScript around the web.
And we looked even at some more
real world skills like debugging.
We talked about error handling just now.
We talked about how to kind
of work with our browser as
a companion to help us develop
the websites that we want to,
using the console for example,
and using our dev tools.
So we talked really about some real-world
professional context skills that we're
gonna need, using modules, for example,
when we go out into the real world,
into the wide world of web development
in the wild, as we could say.
So really, really, really amazing job,
you all,
this is a lot that we've worked through.
It's been a journey.
We have taken our first steps and
then some.
And you all have just been
asking amazing questions,
you've been doing great
job on these projects.
We've built some simple but
pretty dynamic websites to
fetch dogos and quiz each other and
do other things.
So, from here, let's keep going.
Let's continue digging deeper,
let's continue our infinite
to JavaScript journey.
There are so many other great courses on
Frontend masters that you can take to
continue learning more about
more advanced JavaScript.
Some learning in more detail, some of
the async stuff, some of the module stuff,
different techniques for working
with complex JavaScript code bases.
And there are also some other great
courses on things like, TypeScript.
If you don't like the loosey gooseyness
for example of JavaScript when it
comes to working with types or the number
of arguments you can pass into a function,
something like TypeScript might
be a nice alternative for you.
And we talked briefly a little bit about
working with frameworks like React or
Angular or View, and so
there are all kinds of amazing
courses on Frontend Masters,
courses on dev tools in the browser and
how to be effective with those.
So keep on going, please,
don't let this be the last JavaScript
course you take on Frontend Masters.
On FrontendMasters.com, if you go to
/learn, you can actually find guided
paths through all of these amazing
courses that are available.
So, you can take different paths in for
example, looking at JavaScript in depth,
so going through a whole bunch
of different topics or Node,
we mentioned, is the back end
a server side version of JavaScript.
Or those frameworks, react, view, angular,
we can talk about TypeScript learning,
an alternative to JavaScript that's not so
loosey goosey with its types and
the arguments you pass in
the functions and things like that.
And functional JavaScript is another,
I'm a big fan of functional
programming in JavaScript.
I think it makes working in
JavaScript much nicer and easier.
So you can continue with functional
programming, which we've talked about
a tiny bit, and all kinds of other great
stuff on FrontendMasters.com/learn.
So please continue, go through the
Learning Paths, explore the other courses
available, don't let this be the last
JavaScript or web development course that
you take on Frontend Masters please
cuz there's so much more to learn.
And there are also other resources
out there that can help you really,
really solidify some of the mental models
that we've been building in this course.
For example, there's a great email based
course called Just JavaScript that you
can check out that will really get into
really what's happening with variables and
pointers and things like that.
And of course, there is the immense
reference material on MDN and
other sites that are out there where you
can learn so much more about not only
different methods and spells that you
can cast on arrays and strings and
all kinds of other stuff in JavaScript,
but also some high level concepts
around how the web works and how HTML and
CSS and JavaScript all work together.
So keep exploring,
keep investigating and keep playing.
Keep tinkering, keep exploring in
the console stuff that's happening.
Keep writing your own JavaScript code and
trying out new things.
And just keep going, keep exploring
continue stepping forward through
your JavaScript journey because as I said,
at the beginning of the course
this is a never ending process, so
we're all constantly learning, I'm
constantly learning JavaScript for sure.
And we have just to keep going and sort
of sometimes it gets a little frustrating
because JavaScript can be weird sometimes.
Sometimes there's historical accidents,
but if we keep poking around,
we will find the tools that we need to be
successful in our JavaScript adventures,
and make our computers do what we want and
cast our magic spells on them.
So, thank you so much for
participating in the course.
Thank you so much for
working through these projects and
these examples and
these 90s pop song references [LAUGH].
And huge,
huge thank you to the Frontend Masters
team that has been making this all happen.
So huge thank you to everyone that has
been a fundamental part of making this
course happen and especially thanks to
Mark Grabonski and Daniel Higginbotham
who both helped a lot in developing
this course, so helped me out.
And thank you reveal.js for
making slides that we could all look at.
So most importantly, thank you all
to you for going through this really
adventurous journey into our
first steps with JavaScript.
Thank you so much.
>> Go and build amazing software.
>> Yes, go on, go forth,
live long and JavaScript and
thank you all one more time for
being such an amazing
partner in going through
our first steps here.
Thank you so much.
Take care.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> All right that's a wrap.